Oh get out of here you stupid
mosquito
well I don't want your stupid
diseases
hey guys Julia here for dnews
mosquitoes are often seen as one
of the most annoying creatures
on this planet and arguably one
of the most deadly these buzzing
nuisances carry deadly diseases
like yellow fever dengue fever
lymphatic filariasis and
famously malaria
according to the world health
organization malaria effects
over 500 million people a year
and kills three million
so why are mosquitoes such good
carriers of disease especially
malaria
well interestingly hashtag not
all mosquitoes of the three
thousand species of mosquitoes
only three of them seem to be
the one spreading most of the
human diseases were familiar
with and often these mosquitoes
carry malaria filariasis and
encephalitis and inflammation of
the brain
Culex mosquitoes carry
encephalitis filariasis and the
West Nile virus and aedes
mosquitoes carry encephalitis
yellow fever and dengue fever
in fact many species of
mosquitoes aren't good carriers
of disease at all
according to dr. Kennedy Bernick
microbiologist at the University
of Minnesota most mosquitoes are
malaria resistant and the
susceptible ones are the
oddballs most mosquitoes
actually fight malaria with
their immune responses to
parasites
after a mosquito sucks up its
bloody meal a parrot robic
matrix or barrier forms in
between the bugs lining of their
mid get and the blood when we
can take a few hours to form it
does trap some parasites inside
possibly providing protection
against some of them
the malaria parasite doesn't
infect mosquitoes at all it
never entered their circulatory
system
another response mosquitoes have
is to coat the parasite in a
melon capsule but this comes at
a cost
mosquito has to commit resources
to coat the invader which takes
resources away from things like
reproduction resulting in the
infected mosquitoes becoming
less fertile
so the parasite can enter the
mosquitoes body and often
doesn't make them sick
which is good news for the
parasite or a virus because of
their host dies they die too
malaria's next trick is getting
from the mosquito into a human
body probably yours
the parasite uses some of the
very things that helped a
mosquito feed to easily enter
the next host mosquitoes have
substances in their saliva that
we can blood vessels promote
bleeding and shut down
human body's natural first line
of defense these evolutionary
advantages help invaders slip
into their next host with an
injection directly into the
bloodstream they bypass a lot of
immune defenses and some
parasites actually change of
mosquitoes behavior to make it
easier for them to achieve this
goal
one study in PLoS ONE found that
malaria makes humans smell more
attractive to mosquitoes and
another study published in the
American Journal tropical
medicine and hygiene and the
malaria makes mosquitoes feed
longer and invades the
mosquitoes salivary glands while
in the sporozoite stage which
probably helps the parasite get
into the next host easier but in
their invasion they interfere
with the mosquito saliva
production which the mosquito
needs to locate blood vessels in
a host with impaired salivary
abilities it takes longer for
the mosquitoes feed to get the
same amount of blood which is
just fine with the parasite it
gives them more time to jump to
their new host
so the mosquitoes are good at
varying parasites like malaria
to our bloodstream they don't
benefit from their more but task
and instead put themselves in
more danger and can become
infertile the saying goes don't
kill the messenger but in this
case you should totally kill the
messenger
I agree with one Cornell
University researcher who called
mosquitoes the most vile and
useless species on the planet
why don't we just get rid of
them all well trace an Italian
financer in this episode right
here
a world without mosquitoes
sounds like it doesn't suck
but what purpose do mosquitoes
actually serve don't they have
to have a purpose
not really actually they exist
because they haven't gone
extinct yet
alright guys so how do you feel
about mosquitoes would you kill
them all or do you think they're
useful in some way
let me know down in the comments
below and don't forget to hit
those like and subscribe buttons
and keep coming back to dnews so
you don't miss a single episode